>> Scott Moss: We talked about scalar
types, we're talking about object types.
We mentioned the query type.
I promise I'll get to it in more
detail at the bottom of this, but
let's get more into
some other things here.
So we have this other thing
called interface type.
If you've ever used any type system in
your life where there's TypeScript or
type-based language like Java,
you kinda already know what interface is.
Interface is like abstract type.
It itself isn't an object, but it can
be implemented by other object types.
So for instance,
you might have interface called character,
and a character can be
implemented by other optic types.
So if I'm making a video game and
I have interface called character,
I might have two object types
that are of the type character.
They share these same four fields, but
they also have their own different fields,
right?
So they share this interface because all
characters need a ID, a name, friends, and
appears in, but this other object
type over also has these fields, and
this object type has these fields.
So that's what a interface is.
So we can play around with that.
So if we go back to our schema and
we make an interface here.
>> Scott Moss: I can say interface,
and I'll call this a,
I guess I will do the same thing,
character.
So we can say character, and I'm just
gonna take the name off a person and
put it on character because
all characters have a name.
They have an outfit, I guess.
That's a string, right?
And then they have strengthStat, okay?
And that is gonna be
an integer that's required.
So now that I have that,
I can go down to my person and
I can say this implements character.
The only thing is you have to
put all the fields on it again.
Was just kinda redundant, but it makes
sense if you dive into the tooling.
And then I can put any other fields
in addition to a character that
a person needs.
So let's say a person
also has backgroundStory.
>> Scott Moss: Something like that, right?
So I could do that.
And then I could make another
type that implements character.
And I'll call this,
>> Scott Moss: An alien.
And so having a backgroundStory, they
have a homeWorld, something like that.
>> Scott Moss: And
then what I could do is instead of,
actually I'll just make another query and
I'll call it characters, plural.
And it's gonna return a list of character,
like that.
>> Scott Moss: And
I'm gonna say the list is non-null, so
it must always return an array.
I could also put an exclamation
inside the array and say,
not only does it have to return an array,
the array cannot be empty.
So that is something you can do as well.
>> Scott Moss: So I'll do that.
And let's see if we didn't break anything.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, nothing broke,
that's great [LAUGH] cuz it
will break if it's very strict.
So now that I have that, what I can do
is I'm just gonna get rid of this query.
And I'm going to say, give me a character.
And then now you can see here on
the left it's like, okay, cool,
you want a character?
But you have these other things
that implement the character.
You have a person that
implements the character,
you also have an alien that
implements the character.
So I'm gonna say, give me all the common
fields, I want those common fields.
So let me run this, right-click.
You can see I have the common fields.
But notice, how do I know which
one of these is an alien or
which one is a person?
There's no indication of that,
they both implement the character.
Well, there's a couple things you can do.
One, you can add this field
called typename, like this.
And what this will do,
it will tell you the type of
the object that you are resolving to.
So in this case, you can see
typename shows person or alien here.
So that's one way you could figure it out.
But now let's say I actually wanna
get this specific fields for
the specific implementation.
So for the person,
that's gonna be backgroundStory.
And then for the alien, that's homeWorld.
Notice it added these characters here.
It added this dot dot dot
on dot dot dot on, right?
So this is what's called
an inline fragment.
And it's basically saying, okay, these
are the common fields for characters.
So I don't have to specify what object
type I want these to come from cuz they
all share these.
But these are the specific fields.
So when the character is a person,
I also want the backgroundStory.
When the character is an alien,
I want its homeWorld.
That's what the dot dot dot on is.
But you can think of this as when a person
give me this, when an alien give me that.
So I'm not gonna run this.
You can see, for
the aliens I get the homeWorld, for
the persons I get backgroundStory.
So you can start to see how you can
compose different pieces of data from
different places that share similar things
but also are quite different, but yet
still, from a client side, make one query.
And if you notice, we get back the exact
same shape in the exact same order that we
requested, name, name, outfit, outfit,
strengthStat, backgroundStory.
Everything's exactly the same, right?
If I got rid of outfit, then it's gonna
be gone, it's not gonna be there.
Just because it's all a scheme and
that'll mean I'm gonna get it back, right?
The way you would handle this in rest is,
I'm just gonna give you back everything
that's public for
this resource and send it back.
And then if you wanna optimize for that,
you'll build a query builder
on the end of that URL.
You'll say, okay, all right, well,
you wanna do specific fields?
Okay, I'll add support for
a query string where you can say select or
you can say fields.
And then maybe you can pass me
a JSON object that has the fields,
the field name you want, colon, true or
false, and I'll return it, right?
That's how it works.
>> Speaker 2: What's the difference
between the exclamation mark
on the character in the array
versus on the array itself?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, great question.
So the exclamation mark follows
what you want to be required.
So in this case, I have a exclamation
mark outside the array,
that means characters
has to return an array.
The array can be empty, but
it has to return an array.
The exclamation mark on
the inside is saying,
the array cannot be empty,
it must have a character in it at least.
So this is saying,
it must return a non-null array
that has at least one value in it.
If I got rid of the inside exclamation,
this is just saying there will for
sure always be an array,
there just might not be anything in it.
If I got rid of one on the outside,
it saying, there might not be an array,
and even if there was an array,
there might not be anything in the array.
If I just put one on the inside and
nothing on the outside, this is saying,
there might not be an array, but
if there was an array, there would for
sure be something in it.
So I don't know why you
would ever have that, but
really just depends on your application.
For me, if I have an array type, I always
do that cuz you should always want
an array to come back
even when it's empty.
That way, it doesn't break your
app cuz I'm thinking of a UI.
You're gonna be mapping over
an array inside of React probably.
You don't wanna check to see if
their arrays is there or not.
It's much easier for
the array to be empty.
So you had to change your code, then for
it to not exist in the first place,
where that's gonna create
a branch in your code.
So for me, I always just make sure
the array has exclamation on the outside.
This part, that's gonna be use case.
That's gonna be determined on
your use case, but for me,
I always make sure the arrays is required.
And that's just something
that I've learned.